each country may be separate but they
are ultimately connected to each other
what one country does may have a
profound effect on another tune in to
the facts figures and Analysis to stay a
step ahead you came here for the truth
so let me unveil that for you today
we're going to look at the PMI
manufacturing we are also going to look
at currencies and a few other issues
beginning with this a little bit of
background what exactly is the PMI and
that is quite simply the purchasing
managers index that is the PMI and it is
the indicator of the economic health of
the manufacturing
sector
and it's one very important indicator
that we constantly look at to discover
what is the current status what is the
situation the PMI is based off of five
major indicators new orders inventory
levels production supplier deliveries
and the employment
environment it's important to know
always keeping an eye on the PMI
something that we constantly constantly
need to look at to
monitor okay that's a little bit of
background there just wanted to show you
that this is the chart that I wanted to
get to most important of all our model
of the global PMI suggests growth
momentum is set to fade over the coming
months as the lagged benefit from
falling commodity prices wears off and
you will see what's going on right now
throughout
2017 they are
predicting some Set uh some amount of
decline to occur it's not saying it's
going to be you know the biggest
collapse ever it's simply suggesting
that the tables will continue to
turn and the PMI really hasn't been able
to get to where it was previously during
the financial prior to the financial
crisis of course and you could see this
here I actually find it interesting the
way that they show this chart it looks
like it literally drops off the Earth
but that's what happen happened when you
have any sort of Crisis you
have inventories that build up you have
employment that begins to suffer and so
on and the PMI reflects that it isn't
the be all end all indicator it's not
something that is you can just look at
this one indicator and discuss the
health
of the particular economy doesn't work
like that you need to see this among
everything else and I do believe that it
is important so connected in with that I
have uh a couple more charts here I'm
just going to go through them quickly
there's a lot to cover China's PMI on
the other hand has risen by seven
points over the past 15 months and are
now close to a 6year high consistent
with GDP growth
of
8% so something is going on I'm getting
much of this
uh a real big mixed message coming out
of China at this time I've heard
economists talking about China starting
to you know the wheels are spinning
again but simultaneously I read a lot of
data that showed quite the
opposite so I'd like to keep a closer
eye on exactly what's happening here
obviously just with any
economy for example the manufacturing
sector might be doing well because you
know those are exports but then on the
import side of things domestic
consumption may be suffering you need to
understand you know there there's
multiple sides to anything and then uh
top right one a negative credit impulse
in q1 is very difficult to avoid however
pointing to the downside for the pmis
and I just showed you that then you look
at a further weakening in fixed asset
investment F
AI by S OE state owned Enterprises which
already slowed sharply in
December
interesting real estate and private fais
again that's a fixed asset investment
the other components of overall fa have
also started to slow stall over the past
couple months growth is reliable proxy
for China's GDP growth and look at that
slowly over the past few years coming
down in a nice decline so again we get a
little bit of mixed messages going on
here and I do believe that each sector
is independent from the others though on
a deeper level surely they do show that
they are all interconnected even
globally Global Credit impulse falls
back to zero and look where it was I
mean during the financial crisis
clearly not at that moment right now but
it has come down significantly This
Global Credit
impulse just in the past let's say year
or so so we have to keep an eye on this
one as well I'm looking at Global but as
you can see for yourself for the most
part anyway you'll see that they are
generally linked together and then you
will see instances where that's not true
for example right in here but to me when
I look at something like this it's a
very small piece of the puzzle I thought
it' be interesting to include regardless
now the Netherlands all my friends from
the Netherlands hello the future
relationship with the Euro will be
comprehensively debated by its
Parliament following the elections in
March after lawmakers commissioned a
report on the currency's future huge
news this right here I mean once
something makes it up to that high level
that chain of command you know that it
is being considered doesn't necessarily
mean that anything's going to happen but
what an interesting
concept could this be because of the
whole brexit
scenario I don't know but I think it's
huge I think it would be great I think
it would be great if that would actually
occur the motion approving the
investigation by the Council of State
the government's legal adviser coincides
with the rising tide of euroskepticism
in Europe which populist parties are
hoping to tap into a series of national
elections this year are also taking in
Eurozone powerhouses France and
Germany once again we need to keep our
eyes on what's happening with these
elections looking at France with Le Pen
going from literally nobody knew who she
was probably when I
started hearing about it or what it was
I mean it had to be not quite 10 years
ago but a little before that where it
was very much in The Fringe
and
now coming out as a front
runner and that's all I'm going to say
about this let's let's see what actually
happens after that
time China's Crackdown on overseas
investment is hitting Hollywood
torpedoing a deal that would have put
MGM Studios under Chinese control and
placing other high-profile Acquisitions
in limbo so apparently that has been
taken down this is all part of capital
controls they don't want the capital
outflows to take place at such a high
degree at least that's the excuse on the
uh upper level I would say that maybe
they were going too fast and they raised
a little bit of these alarm Bells as
they did with me and they're just doing
this to uh make a little effort to say
look look it's not it's not us the
government who's doing it okay we don't
want to take over your country we just
want to you know make make sure
everything is just organic and natural
and everything and I'm not even
suggesting that of course they would do
that I'm just thinking is very odd very
very odd that they go full steam ahead
and then all of a sudden they just back
off at one point seems unusual to me
this here's actually some good
news and this article is talking about
how doctors
are choosing to use food as medicine
instead of course this is a very very
small percentage but they call it food
as medicine excellent going back of
course to
hypocrates according to the CDC this
actually upset me which is the reason I
put it in here
though the
CDC nearly half of all Americans
routinely take prescription drugs and
75% of all doctor's visits involve
drugs wow you know they decide which
drugs are
banned and which drugs are allowed to be
sold to people stuffed down their
throats look at this as an example 75%
of the time you know when I talk to
people in Toronto at least whatever it
is whether it's their children it's
themselves most of the time I would say
75% at at the the very
least it ends up ending with some sort
of antibiotics or anything
else
and where you know now as scientists
have discovered we are moving into the
postantibiotic ERA this is all because
of that that just giving drugs but
people see the reason I mentioned this
is because people want to leave the
doctor's office with something in hand
they don't want to think that they
didn't come out with something for them
so they ask can I get some antibiotics
can I get this or the doctors simply
would just refer them to get that and I
think this is a terrible idea I think
this is destroying
the human organisms essentially and then
it's having a ripple effect look at what
is happening out there and I'm very
happy to see something like food as
medicine I think that's excellent to
hear so a little bit of positive news in
this world today if you found this video
informative please give me a thumbs up
last but not least if you found the
video informative I know you will find
my book The Money GPS even more
informative so head over to Amazon where
they have a look inside feature that
will allow you to flip through the pages
of the book and see if you like it take
care